code/collaborative-optimizer/README.md, before:

# Collaborative Workload Optimizer

This readme file contains instructions for setting up and running the example scripts.

## Setup 
There's no pip installation yet. 
To use the collaborative optimizer, clone the repository and update the PYTHONPATH to include the path to the current folder. For example:
```
export PYTHONPATH="${PYTHONPATH}:/path-to-where-the-repository-is-cloned/ml-workload-optimization/code/collaborative-optimizer
```

Required packages:
```
pip install -U pandas 
pip install -U scikit-learn 
pip install -U networkx 
pip install -U kaggle 
pip install -U matplotlib 
pip install -U seaborn 
pip install -U pympler 
pip install -U lightgbm 
pip install -U 'openml==0.8.0'
```

## Examples
To use the optimized execution environment instead of pandas use the following import and load csv files:
```python
from experiment_graph.execution_environment import ExecutionEnvironment
execution_environment = ExecutionEnvironment()
data = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/data.csv')
```

There is support for several sklearn operators and models which can be found [here](experiment_graph/sklearn_helper)

You can find a simple end-to-end example notebook [here](examples/).

There are several other scripts [here](paper/experiment_workloads/kaggle_home_credit/optimized) as well.

## Advanced Usage
To pass custom scikit learn models (or any model that follows the fit/transform API of scikit learn), you can do the following:
```python
from experiment_graph.execution_environment import ExecutionEnvironment
execution_environment = ExecutionEnvironment()
data = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/data.csv')


from sklearn.impute import SimpleImputer # Actual scikit learn model
sk_imputer = SimpleImputer()
trained_imputer = data.fit_sk_model(sk_imputer)
# call trained_imputer.data() to get the actual trained scikit learn model
imputed_data = trained_imputer.transform(data)
print(imputed_data.data())
labels = execution_environment.load('path-to-labels/labels.csv')

from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
sk_random_forest_model = RandomForestClassifier()
trained_random_forest = imputed_data.fit_sk_model_with_labels(sk_random_forest_model, labels)
# call trained_random_forest.data() to get the actual trained scikit learn model
test_data = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/test_data.csv')
test_labels = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/test_labels.csv')
score = trained_random_forest.score(test_data, test_labels)
print(score.data())
``` 

Check [node.py](experiment_graph/graph/node.py) for a full list of available methods for the following entities:
```
Dataset: equivalent to the pandas DataFrame, execution_environment.load returns a Dataset
Feature: equivalent to the pandas DataSeries
SK_Model: wrapper for models. the resut of Dataset.fit_sk_model_with_labels or Dataset.fit_sk_model are SK_model. 
Agg: result of aggregate operations such as sum, nunique, min, and max on Dataset and Feature
SuperNode: Special nodes for representing multi-input operators such as merge and concat    
```

Commit message:

info on logical and physical operators

code/collaborative-optimizer/README.md, after:

# Collaborative Workload Optimizer

This readme file contains instructions for setting up and running the example scripts.

## Setup 
There's no pip installation yet. 
To use the collaborative optimizer, clone the repository and update the PYTHONPATH to include the path to the current folder. For example:
```
export PYTHONPATH="${PYTHONPATH}:/path-to-where-the-repository-is-cloned/ml-workload-optimization/code/collaborative-optimizer
```

Required packages:
```
pip install -U pandas 
pip install -U scikit-learn 
pip install -U networkx 
pip install -U kaggle 
pip install -U matplotlib 
pip install -U seaborn 
pip install -U pympler 
pip install -U lightgbm 
pip install -U 'openml==0.8.0'
```

## Examples
To use the optimized execution environment instead of pandas use the following import and load csv files:
```python
from experiment_graph.execution_environment import ExecutionEnvironment
execution_environment = ExecutionEnvironment()
data = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/data.csv')
```

There is support for several sklearn operators and models which can be found [here](experiment_graph/sklearn_helper)

You can find a simple end-to-end example notebook [here](examples/).

There are several other scripts [here](paper/experiment_workloads/kaggle_home_credit/optimized) as well.

## Advanced Usage
To pass custom scikit learn models (or any model that follows the fit/transform API of scikit learn), you can do the following:
```python
from experiment_graph.execution_environment import ExecutionEnvironment
execution_environment = ExecutionEnvironment()
data = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/data.csv')


from sklearn.impute import SimpleImputer # Actual scikit learn model
sk_imputer = SimpleImputer()
trained_imputer = data.fit_sk_model(sk_imputer)
# call trained_imputer.data() to get the actual trained scikit learn model
imputed_data = trained_imputer.transform(data)
print(imputed_data.data())
labels = execution_environment.load('path-to-labels/labels.csv')

from sklearn.ensemble import RandomForestClassifier
sk_random_forest_model = RandomForestClassifier()
trained_random_forest = imputed_data.fit_sk_model_with_labels(sk_random_forest_model, labels)
# call trained_random_forest.data() to get the actual trained scikit learn model
test_data = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/test_data.csv')
test_labels = execution_environment.load('path-to-data/test_labels.csv')
score = trained_random_forest.score(test_data, test_labels)
print(score.data())
``` 

Check [node.py](experiment_graph/graph/node.py) for a full list of available methods for the following objects:
```
Dataset: equivalent to the pandas DataFrame, execution_environment.load returns a Dataset
Feature: equivalent to the pandas DataSeries
SK_Model: wrapper for models. the resut of Dataset.fit_sk_model_with_labels or Dataset.fit_sk_model are SK_model. 
Agg: result of aggregate operations such as sum, nunique, min, and max on Dataset and Feature
SuperNode: Special nodes for representing multi-input operators such as merge and concat    
```
All the methods that do not start with "p_" are logical, i.e., they do not perform an operation rather they just update
the computation graph.
When .data() is called on an object (e.g., Dataset.data() for Feature.data()), the computation begin. Every logical operations
has a matching physical operation has the same name and the prefix "p_".
